.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

## Description
[Provide a detailed description of the changes in this PR]

## Related Issues
[Link to related issues using #issue-number format]

## Documentation PR
[Link to related associated PR in the agent-docs repo]

## Type of Change
- Bug fix
- New feature
- Breaking change
- Documentation update
- Other (please describe):

[Choose one of the above types of changes]


## Testing
[How have you tested the change?]

* `hatch fmt --linter`
* `hatch fmt --formatter`
* `hatch test --all`
* Verify that the changes do not break functionality or introduce warnings in consuming repositories: agents-docs, agents-tools, agents-cli


## Checklist
- [ ] I have read the CONTRIBUTING document
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or my feature works
- [ ] I have updated the documentation accordingly
- [ ] I have added an appropriate example to the documentation to outline the feature
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] Any dependent changes have been merged and published

By submitting this pull request, I confirm that you can use, modify, copy, and redistribute this contribution, under the terms of your choice.

Commit message:

feat: Simplify contribution template + pr scripts to run (#221)
- Add a single script that runs the commands we want contributions to run.
 - Revamp the contribution template by:
    - Using HTML comments to guide the author, reducing the need to delete the text
    - Converting the type of change to be a flat list, allowing authors to delete all except the one they want
    - Updated the checklist items to allow items that are unnecessary to still be checked

Co-authored-by: Mackenzie Zastrow <zastrowm@users.noreply.github.com>

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

## Description
<!-- Provide a detailed description of the changes in this PR -->

## Related Issues

<!-- Link to related issues using #issue-number format -->

## Documentation PR

<!-- Link to related associated PR in the agent-docs repo -->

## Type of Change

<!-- Choose one of the following types of changes, delete the rest -->

Bug fix
New feature
Breaking change
Documentation update
Other (please describe):

## Testing

How have you tested the change?  Verify that the changes do not break functionality or introduce warnings in consuming repositories: agents-docs, agents-tools, agents-cli

- [ ] I ran `hatch run prepare`

## Checklist
- [ ] I have read the CONTRIBUTING document
- [ ] I have added any necessary tests that prove my fix is effective or my feature works
- [ ] I have updated the documentation accordingly
- [ ] I have added an appropriate example to the documentation to outline the feature, or no new docs are needed
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] Any dependent changes have been merged and published

----

By submitting this pull request, I confirm that you can use, modify, copy, and redistribute this contribution, under the terms of your choice.
